okay we are alive for the false of the
fitness episode trt is an advantage trt
stands for testosterone replacement
therapy so let's get some people in here
all right
Instagram is doing once better than
Facebook is right now and Vera how you
doin super so even though I promised
there was only one reference I get to
per one of these shows yeah I'm gonna
already break that rule because there's
there's a couple pretty good ones not
all of our clinical one was done by CNBC
just pulling in some data for
testosterone replacement which I thought
was pretty interesting
apparently prescriptions are rapidly on
the rise and all day for a second to get
to some of the some of the hardcore
information and I will say like the
reason I'll probably repeat this one we
get a decent amount of people paying
attention that that the the reason I
wanted to do this falsehoods of fitness
was the number of people wanted to know
like what really is TRT and like it
gives us something and I really like
water or neat or something like that or
or sometimes I meant I'm at a conference
health fitness or even medical
conference and I get some young guy
coming up to me and he says hey how do I
get like a prescription for that and
I'll say holy you guys I'm 25 years old
you wouldn't want a prescription for
that because you may end up with lower
testosterone after you start taking
testosterone maybe even your prescribed
dosage won't
you turn out as well as what you have
naturally in your system and then you
don't really want to be on like an
injectable chemical for a long period of
time so you know like there's obviously
some people who don't understand really
anything about it
and think it's somehow an advantage and
this is not really designed for people
with deficiencies so oK we've got a
whole bunch of people should I answer
couple questions first do you think just
give it another another couple minutes
No
okay I'll go ahead and start so I'll
repeat what I said many people even in
our facebook comments people will say
well I want a prescription or this guy
has testosterone replacement therapy as
I mentioned that when I was online I
gave a Spurs show and what we saw with
Dave after his show what we saw in Dave
as you just turned out there you go
thank you thank you
so the question was asked do you take
testosterone so I had an efficiency
since I was in my early 20s from just
getting nailed hard on the rugby field I
just got hit you know had some
testicular damage got a prescription for
testosterone replacement this is like
right
reven I was graduating right I played a
little bit for a
club team after that put some some rugby
sevens after that and so I went to my
physician and I was happy he says hey
hey Shelly
so I went to see my physician and I was
getting short of breath on the field but
I had been running a rugby game he's 80
minutes of running so I was very strong
and I was running all the time I played
one of the faster positions I played
outside center or was just kind of like
a wide receiver and so I running all the
time and now I'm having like a shortness
of breath and so with the physician says
you have some serious weak
cardiac muscle the hell are you talking
about
like I'm an athlete but my heart's weak
as I said with sending the
endocrinologist so what if the
endocrinologist and he says you about
163 nanograms per deciliter of
testosterone normal is between 350 and a
thousand now certain genetic groups of
people have higher or lower it's the
main system by the way
so so certain groups have higher like
african-americans up higher levels of
testosterone then Caucasians your
peanuts and then Hispanics are a little
bit lower than that and typical Asian
people are a little bit lower than that
but everybody lands within that 350 to a
thousand anagrams per deciliter and
there's other normal you know normal
levels based on different studies but
most physicians stay right right in
there at 163 and so I said well you know
I had an injury and so I was prescribed
testosterone because it's only you you
don't strengthen your cardiac muscle
which probably can't function very well
without this prescription then you may
have a heart attack in his 30s so I was
like no no no no what
you made that pretty easy so part of the
part of my interest in physical medicine
was driven by this experience and so
then then been getting these questions
and also having my research a few years
ago branch out into anabolic hormones
getting the body to trigger anabolic
hormones so that's one thing that's with
the programming of x3 and with all the
other things that recommend watch blood
trainers a lot of Sports physiologist
look towards activating a muscle to the
highest degree not towards any endocrine
change whereas I'm trying to look only
at endocrine changes if your body
triggers an anabolic hormone to go up
after you do an activity that's a much
better indicator that your body wants to
grow something then just torturing the
muscle because obviously the growth
factor increases chances are the pulse
is getting changed and we have
research that shows that - so everything
that I'm encouraging people to do is
focused on those strong hormonal changes
now when you look at normal levels of
testosterone so there's a 1996 study
declining and their gyms with age and an
overview so this is pulling it a bunch
of different research so it's meta data
it's one showing this so you can see the
highest levels of testosterone are
actually for people that are in their
late 30s and early 40s right so somebody
like me if I didn't have any challenger
curve or issue or damage I would not
want a prescription for testosterone
because right now I met the peak for my
age so when somebody says oh it was a
guy in his 40s and he's in great shape
it must be trt that person is just a
stupid person they don't know what
they're talking about so and it's
amazing how many of those there are on
the Internet
so what we what we see here is when
you're when everything is fine that's
when you get your your peak levels and
when you get the prescription it brings
you right to your peak levels the are in
testosterone replacements the trt the
are beautiful placement it doesn't mean
you get more it's just replacement so
there's patients that get testosterone
replacement and they don't see anything
happen and in fact the probably one of
the larger labs friends of the owner
patient of that lab for many many years
and and so what he says to me is he
loves x3 because he gives everybody to
take the sauce from Clinique it's in the
next three so obviously they're gonna
put heavier loads based on the way x3
work
you're kind of tricking your body into
heavier loads and then with more
repetitions and then that up regulates
something else know what's the something
else this is a really important part the
conversation in fact I was waiting to
find like the exact right reference to
explain this because I knew it to be
true
but it just so happens a couple days ago
a new study published this is Morgan and
researchers a whole list of them Morton
and researchers and it's called muscle
antigen receptors not hormones induced
skeletal muscle hypertrophy so does that
mean that means that it's the amount of
receptors that you have active not the
amount of testosterone in your system
which also goes to the amount of free
testosterone the air bound with the
amount of free testosterone is
testosterone that can be appropriate
into an androgen receptor
well that Colie and free testosterone is
like a mysterious function of the body
that has to do an age does he or is that
getting cause-and-effect
backwards code say it's getting
cause-and-effect backwards based on this
study because the amount of potential
receptors you have is how much of that
chemical is going to find its way into
the muscle and then cause growth so now
that we know this somebody who this is
why somebody could take an anabolic
chemical and then if they don't work out
or their work out with really
lightweight nothing happens they don't
change it all
and hence like what what has been seen
with that
TRT lab that they know the owner of
to so many of these guys they get the
hormone in their system and then they
just don't find time to exercise or they
exercise really light because they're
afraid of getting hurt and absolutely
nothing happens they don't build muscle
because you got to put heavy load
through the muscle to up regulate the
amount of receptors are looking for it
so that's that's really the the
summation on my testosterone replacement
therapy it's not really anything you
want unless you really have a deficiency
and then as long as it's deficiency it
is addressed it's not going to get you
really beyond anywhere normal unless
you're putting tremendous loads through
the body
I've strategy doing that but that's true
in general as well so that kind of
concludes I'm sure there's a ton of
question